---
layout: post
title: Software Project Management and Development Notes 5
---

### The capability maturity model

Good process produce good result ( or is it? )

A good software development process will create good software

#### Evaluation of software development process

Capacity Maturity Model is a development model, it outlines a series of stages in the development of a software developer, the idea is an organization progresses through stages as it grows and matures

An organization start out building software informally, after it has some understanding of its process, measurement and control are introduced and applied with specific goal and focus on process improvement.

Maturity levels

1. Initial: Unpredictable process
2. Managed: Reactive
3. Defined: Proactive
4. Quantitatively managed: Controlled
5. Optimizing: Improvement

Immaturity model:

1. Negligent
2. Obstructive
3. Contemptuous
4. Undermining

More recently CMM has been enlarged, refined and redefined as CMMI ( 24 process areas, 4 groups, staged or continuous )

#### Process improvement in general

It's a cycle: Measure -> Change -> Evaluate

- Decide what to improve
- Decide what to measure
- Change are constrained by requirements imposed by clients.

#### Product quality

Depends on

- People quality
- Process quality
- Development technology
- Cost, time, schedule

Because software development is an activity generally associated with commercial activities where profit matters, so quality and other standards may have to be compromised to get a product delivered at an acceptable time / cost.

> Good process has a positive effect on product quality, however in software development it is again hard to define what is a good process. There are certain development models to measure certain process, CMM outlines 5 different stages in the development of software. CMMI is the successor of CMM, it defines 24 process areas and 4 groups, it can be represented as staged or continuous.

> Process improvement in general follows the path of Measure, Change, Evaluate. However, there are undetermined factors such as what to measure, what to change / improve, and changes are often constrained by customer requirements.

> Generally product quality can be affected by personale, process, development technology and cost / time constraints. Sometimes ( often ) quality is compromised to meet the business requirements in a software project.
